Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
A.Data structures are the essential building blocks that we uses to organizing data,storing data,managing data
so that we can access and modify it efficently.

What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
Insertion, deletion,sorting,searching,adding new eliments.
List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
Operating System,Database Management,Compiler design,Statistical analysis package so on.
what is an Array?
Array is a data structure for sorting more than one data item that has a similar data type.
what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
An array is a fixed-length data structure. ArrayList is a variable data structure.
what is LinkedList?
The linked list class is an ordered collection that contains many objects of the same type.
How is an Array different from Linked List?
An Array is a collection of elements of a similar data type. Linked List is an ordered collection of elements of the
 same type which each element is connected to the next using pointers.
what is queue? JavaQueue represemts an ordered list of elements.
what is stack? A stack is a logical concept that consists of a set of similar elements.
what is FIFO and LIFO? FIFO-First in, First out.It is a method for handling data structures where the first element
   is precessed first and the newest element is precessed last.LIFO---Last in First out....a method for handling
   data structures where the last entered element will be processed first and the first entered element  will be processed last.
what is the order of complexity?
O(1),O(log n),O(n), O(n log n), O(n2)
what is the best case to search an element from an array?
Binary.Sequential search is the best that we can do when trying to find a value in an unsorted array,
what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
The worst case performance is when the search item appears at the end of the list or not at all.
what is tree in data structure?
A tree is a hierarchical data structure defined as a collection of nodes(objects or entities).
what is graph in data structure?
A graph is a non linear data structure consisting of vertices and edges.
what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
HashTable is internally synchronized  and contains unique key. and HashMap allows maximum one null key and any number
of null values.
What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
RDBMS-the relational database management system  manages to store,query and retrieve data, Network data model was created to solve the shortcomings of the
hierarchical database model, this model is capable of handling multiple types of relationships.
How HashMap works in java?
Hashmap in Java works on hashing principles. It is a data structure that allows us to store object and retrieve it in constant time o(1),put and get.
What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
It occurs when the programmer tries to access the value of an element in an array at an invalid index.An array is a data structure/container/object that stores a fixed-size sequential collection of elements of the same type.
What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
To copy array items into another array, Invoke the concat() method in the first array and pass the second array as a parameter.

What is difference between an array and a linked list?
An array is a grouping of data elements of equivalent data type.
 A linked list is a group of entities called a node

What is DFS and BFS?
BFS stands for Breadth First Search.BFS is a vertex-based technique for finding the shortest path in the graph
 DFS stands for Depth First Search.  DFS performs in 2 stages performs two stages, first visited vertices are pushed into the stack, and second if there are no vertices then visited vertices are popped.
What is Recursion?
The process in which a function calls itself directly or indirectly is called recursion.
What are linear and non linear data Structures?
A Linear data structure is a type of storage which is used to organise and store the data.
In a non-linear data structure, single level is not involved. It can not traverse all the elements in single run only. Non-linear data structures are not easy to implement in comparison to linear data structure.
What is Big-(O)-notation?
Big O is a notation for measuring the complexity of an algorithm. Big O notation mathematically describes the complexity of an algorithm in terms of time and space. We don’t measure the speed of an algorithm in seconds (or minutes!).
 It measures the rate of growth of an algorithm in the number of operations it takes to complete.
Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?

Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.


